Let's pull in the use selector
cuz we're gonna come to
our next problem that again,
I have an elegant solution for.
But first, let's suffer a little bit and
we'll take a look at it, cool.
So your question was like, so
what's this use selector thing
that I can put in there?
That's a great,
why don't you ask me that question again?
[LAUGH]
>> Yeah, so I have to save the crops so
I can replace with use selector, right?
>> You can, we should do that.
Absolutely, let's try it out.
So here, I'm pulling the tasks from that
contacts API that had sitting around.
So we've got use selector.
And this, you can imagine what use
selector takes as an argument, and
why it wants one from me.
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> No, this isn't React Redux.
But it is,
they did a complete rewrite effectively,
reactory docs had a major rewrite,
I wanna say two years ago-ish,
where it was completely
written in TypeScript and for
supporting all these hooks out of the box.
So yeah, when hooks dropped,
there wasn't necessarily supporting,
there had to be a lot of rethinking and
what to do.
And now we do have this
little thing there,
they're pretty nice in the sense as
well and so welcome to the problem.
So the normal way of just writing
JavaScript is you do like,
this is your entire state tree.
This is not unique to that slice.
This is not anything.
This is the entire state tree.
And you would normally, in map dispatch
props, you'd write a selector like effect.
You take the thing, you'd pull
the props you want, get them ready for
the inside that higher order component for
whatever,
the presentational component was,
great, awesome.
So here we've got state.tasks.
This doesn't feel like I
have auto complete, right?
And I feel like I got a red squiggly line.
And it's upset with me.
It's like state is a type unknown.
Cuz this selector doesn't, I mean,
it came from, to your point,
came from a different library, right?
It doesn't know.
I guess, it has some,
yeah, it doesn't know.
I'm like, could it no but
if it could know,
they probably would have done it, right?
If you rewrite an entire library just for
TypeScript, so what do we do?
You could say that this is the type
of the entire state somewhere.
You could be like,
we know what the shape of our state tree
is right now cuz it's simple and small.
So if I look at useSelector,
unknown is what that state is most likely.
So I could say that it's got tasks, and
then tasks have entities,
and that's an array.
Look, everything's happy, right?
That seems cool, I guess.
It didn't even get it
totally right there but,
we have to say the state is that shape.
So yeah, that's fun.
Anyway, you probably don't wanna do this.
We can say it right here
as well defining this.
I'm building up for the fact that
we don't have to live like this.
Cool, it's confused about everything.
Cuz it just thinks it's
an array of nothing, so
I gotta say it's an array of tasks.
Yeah, it's your first thing,
it's like, you know what I'll do?
I'll make a type, I'll put it in my global
d.ts, and it's the shape of my state.
You could do that, you could.
And guess what?
Every time you add a new reducer or
change the shape of your state, or
just even add a property to a thing,
right,
you're going to have to update that
in some way, shape or form, right?
And so then you start to create
a House of Cards of other types.
And that doesn't go super well, right?
And so if only there was a way to
generate a type based on whatever
the end result that came
out of your store was.
By definition, we know the TypeScript
automatically can derive the types
of return values of functions, right?
Under the hood, Redux has the store object
that it gives you back has a dispatch
method, you can guess what that does.
Also, there's one called getState.
You can roughly guess what that one does,
right?
They got good names and so if there
was only a way that we could do that,
well, we can.
>> The return type of getState?
>> Yep, perfect, that was a good segue.
[LAUGH] I thought the question I was like,
yeah.
I set it up, you got it, perfect.
[COUGH] So let's look at that inside
store where I have this ready to go,
and this is why I had
this out of its own file.
And so here I can say something type.
You can call it RouteState.
I like to call it ApplicationState.
I've seen a call RouteState before,
that works, too.
And we can say that this is the same
method that we did with those actions that
we're making ourselves earlier with
create action to get the return type of
a function.
We say return type and we say, Cool.
Store.
And look it's my issue.
>> Do you need to invoke it or no?
>> I don't need to invoke it.
Perfect, I'm so used to calling
the function, all right, cool.
So now, look,
that is the shape of our state.
So it could be tempting to go ahead and
do this.
And the temptation is good, but
you can't put it in a global file because
it does need this JavaScript, right?
It's not something you're just defining.
If you define it yourself and
tried to keep it up to date manually,
you can totally do that.
But here,
it is a thing that we have to export.
So we can go back into
the tasks list at this point.
And we could say that, actually,
This is the ApplicationState.
The red squiggles are gone.
Everything is happy, life goes on.
Welcome to the world where you have to
import this now every time you also import
your selector.
No, I don't want to live like this either.
No, I'm not doing it.
You can't make me.